Adding passports documentation content (#10)
ga4gh/ga4gh-starter-kit-docs: docs/starter-kit-apis/passports/passports_ui_overview.md

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Starter Kit Passport UI Overview

The Current Starter Kit Passport UI Release **0.0.2** implements GA4GH Passport Specification Release **1.2.0**

[Github](https://github.com/ga4gh/ga4gh-starter-kit-passport-ui), [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/ga4gh/ga4gh-starter-kit-passport-ui-node)

> The GA4GH Passport UI is the central UI server that connects the other Passport related microservice (ory hydra, ory kratos). The GA4GH Passports: Starterkit Implementation is made up of multiple services, this UI-node being one of them. To make API requests, the Passport Broker Service will need to be running. [View specification](https://github.com/ga4gh-duri/ga4gh-duri.github.io/blob/master/researcher_ids/ga4gh_passport_v1.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GA4GH Starter Kit Passport UI is the central UI server that connects the other Starter Kit Passport related microservice (ory hydra, ory kratos). The GA4GH Starter Kit Passport: Starterkit Implementation is made up of multiple services, this UI-node being one of them. To make API requests, the Passport Broker Service will need to be running. [View specification](https://github.com/ga4gh-duri/ga4gh-duri.github.io/blob/master/researcher_ids/ga4gh_passport_v1.md).
```

After cloning the repository, navigate to the cloned repo and use the command below to run the different services in the passport-network docker-compose file.
```
docker-compose -f passport-network.yml up --build --force-recreate
```

You can confirm hydra and kratos are running by confirming the following response in the command prompt
```
ga4gh-starter-kit-passport-ui_kratos-migrate_1 exited with code 0
ga4gh-starter-kit-passport-ui_hydra-migrate_1 exited with code 0
```

Ory hydra is a OAuth 2.0 and Open ID Connect certified server. It allows you to interface with the passport application and login systems.

Ory kratos is the identity management system for the server for the different users. This service supports user creation and management.

Confirm the passport broker is running using a request to the passport broker service info
```
GET http://localhost:4500/ga4gh/passport/v1/service-info
```

You should get back an object body starting with `id` with value `"org.ga4gh.starterkit.passport.broker"`, and other information.

Confirm that the image for the repository `ga4gh/ga4gh-starter-kit-passport-ui-node`

> The GA4GH Passports: [Starterkit](https://starterkit.ga4gh.org/) Implementation is made up of multiple services, this UI-node being one of them. In order to start running multiple services at once a [docker compose](https://github.com/ga4gh/ga4gh-starter-kit-passport-ui/blob/595b13e965ce1cfbb7f042baa9da34b5d9334ad2/passport-develop.yml) file used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GA4GH Starter Kit Passport network Implementation is made up of multiple services, this UI-node being one of them. In order to start running multiple services at once a [docker compose](https://github.com/ga4gh/ga4gh-starter-kit-passport-ui/blob/595b13e965ce1cfbb7f042baa9da34b5d9334ad2/passport-develop.yml) file used.
```

Reviewer: @Chen2x please take a look at this suggestion.
